Command Line Use
----------------

The antiSMASH command line tool comes with a built-in help system. Use
`antismash --help` to display help for the most common options, or `antismash
--help-showall` to get a description of all possible options.


### Default run

Running antiSMASH without parameters will run the core detection modules
and those analyses which are quite fast to run.

More time consuming options such as the
ClusterBlast analyses, Pfam annotations, smCoG tree generation,
etc. will not be run.

On a quad-core machine, running the *Streptomyces coelicolor* genome with these options will take about two minutes.

Example:

```bash
antismash streptomyces_coelicolor.gbk
```


### Minimal run

Running antiSMASH with the `--minimal` parameter will only run the core detection modules and no other modules.
Any modules disabled by this (e.g. HTML output) can be explicitly re-enabled,
if desired, with their matching option (see `--help-showall`).
On a quad-core machine, running the *Streptomyces coelicolor* genome in minimal mode will take about one minute.

In general, we recommend running without the `--minimal`
option, as a default run will generate much more useful results for only
one additional minute of runtime.

Example:

```bash
antismash --minimal streptomyces_coelicolor.gbk
```

### Reusing results from a previous run

The JSON output file previously generated by antiSMASH can be reused to regenerate other output files.
Additional analyses can be enabled for the new run by adding their options.

NOTE: there are some situations in which results cannot be reused,
these are typically when detection modules have changed since the results were generated.
In this case, using the version of antiSMASH that generated the results will be required.

Example:
```bash
antismash --reuse-results strepomyces_coelicolor.json
```


### Customising output
Output directories and custom names for output can be specified, instead of using the input filename by default
(see the `--output` family of arguments).

HTML output can also be customised with alternative titles and descriptions
(see the `--html` family of arguments).